BTA Changelog

Date: Ever-Present
If in doubt, all patch notes will be found here: https://www.bta3062.com/index.php?title=Patch_Notes

Date: 5/31/2025
Patch 19.0 has gone out. Patch notes below.

v19.0 (aka the "More Mechbay Madness" patch) has been released to the installer. This is a chunky patch with a lot happening, so let's get into it! 

MECHBAY CHANGES: Here's the headline feature: the mechbay has changed for the better. Now there are two widgets in the mechbay screen for each mech. The upper left widget (which used to be Armor/Structure/Heat Sink Kit) is now Armor/Structure/Myomer (a new slot, see below). The upper *right* widget is brand new and now holds the Heat Sink Kit/E-Cooling/Thermal Gear slots (Thermal Gear is new, see below). Additionally, all standard mechs have had their Center Torso slots standardized to 17 slots (to accomodate for all the widgets, which are mechanically in the CT). Quads have had their slots standardized at 19 in the CT and 14 in the side torsos. Superheavies have been standardized at 22 in the CT and 18 in the side torsos. 

MYOMER SLOT: Now, all mechs have a myomer slot next to their armor and structure as one of the core components of the frame. This slot holds things like MASC or TSM (which are both myomer modifications). However, to further improve this slot, 7 new myomer options have been created: Armored-Core Myomer (ACM), Bullet-Time Myomer (BTM), Double-Strength Myomer (DSM, comes in Arm and Leg variants), Light-Weight Myomer (LWM), Platinum Myomer, and Steady-Eye Myomer (SEM). There may be more myomers to come in the future too, this is just what we're releasing with. None of these are on stock configs right now but all of them are in general shops.
-------------------------------------------

THERMAL GEAR SLOT: Additionally, all mechs now have a thermal gear slot next to their heat sink kit and e-cooling slots. The thermal gear slot is used for limited-use equipment that adjusts the mech's heat generation or cooling systems in order to provide a benefit of some kind. The best example of thermal gear is the humble Coolant Pod, though the HISC Radical Heat Sink System is also a good example of thermal gear. To make this slot more compelling, more gear has been created for it, including the Overcharge Pod and the Weapon Pods (one for each weapon type out of artillery/ballistic/energy/missile/superweapon). More thermal gear is planned.

MECHBAY REBUILDS ARE NECESSARY: The change to the myomer and thermal gear slots does necessitate a bit of work on the user's end though. Because all of this gear is now located in the dedicated slots, which are in the CT, if you had MASC/TSM/Coolant Pods/Radical Heat Sinks installed on your mech in a different location, you'll need to remove and reinstall them. No way around it, sorry. Should be pretty cheap and fast to do the fixes though. Additionally, because all mechs had their CT slots adjusted, it is possible some of your builds may no longer be crit slot legal. If so, you'll have to rebuild them. In general, mechs mostly gained slots instead of losing them but it's possible you'll need to do some rebuilds. Again, sorry, no way around it, but it shouldn't be too onerous as most builds should work fine.
-------------------------------------------

COMMUNITY CONTENT MECHS NOTE: Because of CC's nature, some CC builds are gonna be under or overweight or have crit slot issues. We fixed as many as we could without making critical changes to builds but you may encounter CC units with weird loadouts. Nothing for it, sorry. Don't bother reporting those to us, can't do anything about it.

SHIELDS ARE NOW COOLER: BattleMech shields have been in BTAU for awhile but have just provided armor. Now, they have an active component to them. All shields now also have a linked component, a hand actuator named the Shield Hand. In combat, the Shield Hand can be activated to engage active blocking mode with the shield. In active blocking mode, shields provide a damage resistance increase at the cost of reduced movement speed (and in the case of medium or large shields, reduction in jump distance, sometimes almost entirely). You can engage or disengage blocking mode before movement (not after, no cheating). Note that any mech you currently have with a shield will require rebuilds to receive the component properly, sorry again, just a fact of life with this patch. Additionally, generic shields have been (for now) removed from stores while I ruminate on some technical details with them. They may return to shops, time will have to tell.

SUPERWEAPON ADJUSTMENT: The Sanctuary Heavy Mass Driver is now a superweapon and the mechs that carry it now have superweapon hardpoints.
-------------------------------------------

NEW MECH: The Dillinger, a 90 ton Jacobson Haven superweapon carrier, has lumbered into battle. This assault mech carries a brand new superweapon, the MMS (Micro-Missile System). The MMS does a ton of shots, each of which do some armor damage, heat damage, and structure damage. It's basically a huge long ranged DRM. You can get the Dillinger from the Jacobson Haven either by battle or by their faction store, the MMS is also available in their faction store.

NEW MECH: The Olympian, a 120 ton alligator-lookin' brick shithouse, has stomped onto the field. The very sharp-eyed among you may recognise the Olympian as originating in Community Content a *long* time ago and that'd be correct. It has since graduated to core BTAU in preparation for something coming in the future. You can find it with the Free Worlds League military and you can find it in their faction store. 

NEW MECH: The Celerity, a 15 ton engine with four legs, has sprinted into the fray. The Celerity bears the singular honor of being the fastest thing in BTAU, being a 240-rated XXL engine w/ MASC on a 15 tonner, giving it a maximumn sprint speed of somewhere around 30+ hexes (the Fire Moth does about 20, for context). It outruns LAMs and that's *after* dealing with terrain. Of course, it has no weapons on the stock config, has almost no armor, and its Drone OS is absolutely crippled by ECM. But still, it's blindingly fast. The Celerity comes from ComStar and can be found in their elite regiments and their faction store.

VARIOUS NEW MECH VARIANTS: There's a Superweapon Hollander for the Steiners; there's some new Iron Cheetah variants; there's a new Panther, the PNT-10ALAG.

BURNING TERRAIN CHANGES: Burning terrain/burning forests are a little too crippling to mech heat sinking systems. Now, instead of reducing sinking capacity by 50%, they reduce sinking capacity by 25%.
-------------------------------------------

COMMUNITY CONTENT: There's a good raft of new CC this patch, including: Cat's Cradle, a new CC planet in the Terran Hegemony; a bunch of mechs gained superweapon hardpoints; there's a new Archangel/Awesome II/Hunchback; there's a new weapon, the Dazer/Duodenary Cannon; 

Reinforced Legs quirk now prevents self-knockdown from weapons fire.
DXR received a range buff.
Coolant Pods (and other thermal gear slot items) can be activated after movement.
Solaris VII's shop list updated with some missing arena mech variants.
The Heavy Duty Gyro now provides a small boost to Damage Reduction. The HD Gyro needed a buff and so it got one.
Johann of Johann's Jaegers is now headshot immune.
Fixed Kamea's Ostroc.
Several Argo upgrades now have brand new icons, courtesy of LanLeonhart. Thanks Lan, they look great! <3
Mech Grenade Launchers had their ammos adjusted. They have less AoE radius, do more AoE damage, and have more ammo per bin.
--------------------------------------------

IMPORTANT: v19.0 is an "update" update. In this case, clear your Mods folder manually and then run the installer, it'll do the work for you.

IMPORTANT: v19.0 is not a save breaking update, your saves are compatible and will work fine.

REMINDER: This update, and others like it, are made possible by my Patreon and Ko-Fi supporters. Without their support, updates would come slower and be less impactful. If you feel like being a part of the support for BTA, you can find me on Patreon (https://www.patreon.com/bloodydoves) and on Ko-Fi (https://ko-fi.com/bloodydoves)

REMINDER: Custom mod commissions are still available if you're interested. If you'd like to get your own community content added to BTA DM me, bloodydoves, and we can work something out. 


== BTA Light ==
BTA Light has been updated with a handful of fixes and the updated Stone Rhino model. It is now on v19.0.lite.